# Spatial CIMIS Daily Asset

Spatial CIMIS is currently being ingested as Earth Engine assets using cloud functions.

## Assets

Collection ID: projects/openet/assets/reference_et/california/cimis/daily/v1

Bands: eto, etr

Image name format: YYYYMMDD

Timestep: daily

### Reference ET

ASCE Standardize Reference ET is being computed from the component variables using the Refet module (https://github.com/WSWUP/refet).  The "grass" and "alfalfa" reference ET bands are named "eto" and "etr".

## Availability

The full spatial CIMIS data is available from 2004-01-01 to the present.  There is partial data from 2003-02-20 to 2003-12-31, but there are numerous days missing in this time period and only some of the variables are present.

## Update Schedule

The image for the previous day is typically available on the server in the early morning, sometime between 3 and 4 AM PT.

The ingest scheduler function is called at 12 UTC each day.

## Source

The spatial CIMIS data is currently being read from the California DWR website (https://spatialcimis.water.ca.gov/cimis).

Spatial CIMIS data is also available on the UC Davis website (http://cimis.casil.ucdavis.edu/cimis), but this data stopped being updated in 2019 and is not being used for this asset.

## Ancillary Data

The elevation asset being used in the reference ET calculation was generated by resampling GMTED2010 elevation asset to the CIMIS grid.  There is an elevation asset on the UC Davis site (http://cimis.casil.ucdavis.edu/cimis/Z.asc), but it had a slightly different spatial extent and mask than the other spatial CIMIS data and is not being used.  The elevation asset was generated using the cimis_ancillary.py tool.

Elevation image ID: 'projects/openet/assets/meteorology/cimis/ancillary/elevation'

## Cloud Functions

The asset ingest is currently being managed using Google Cloud Functions

https://console.cloud.google.com/functions/details/us-central1/cimis-daily-scheduler?project=openet

The cloud functions are called by the Cloud Scheduler:
https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudscheduler?project=openet

### Deploying the cloud function

The following are the parameters that were set when deploying the function for the first time.  Subsequent deployments only need the project if not set above.

```
gcloud functions deploy cimis-reference-et-daily-v1 --project openet --no-gen2 --runtime python311 --region us-central1 --entry-point update --trigger-http --allow-unauthenticated --memory 512 --timeout 240 --service-account="openet-assets-queue@openet.iam.gserviceaccount.com" --max-instances 1 --set-env-vars FUNCTION_REGION=us-central1
```

### Calling the cloud function

The functions can be called by passing JSON data to the function.

```
gcloud functions call cimis-reference-et-daily-v1 --project openet --data '{"start":"2020-11-01","end":"2020-11-05"}'
gcloud functions call cimis-reference-et-daily-v1 --project openet --data '{"days":"60"}'
```

If no arguments are passed to the scheduler it will check the last year for missing assets.

```
gcloud functions call cimis-reference-et-daily-v1 --project openet
```

### Scheduling the job

```
gcloud scheduler jobs update http cimis-reference-et-daily-v1 --schedule "10 12 * * *" --uri "https://us-central1-openet.cloudfunctions.net/cimis-reference-et-daily-v1?days=60" --description "Spatial CIMIS Daily Assets" --http-method POST --time-zone "UTC" --project openet --location us-central1 --max-retry-attempts 3 --attempt-deadline 300s --min-backoff=20s
```
